# Q1) Explain various Event Object with its Constructors , methods and example.

An event listener is an object that "listens" for events from a specific GUI component (which is also an object.) An event in Java is represented as an object. When the user generates an event, the Java system creates an event object. The event object is then sent to the listener that has been registered for the GUI component.

## Different types of event in Java AWT

Generally, there are twelve types of event are used in Java AWT. These are as follows : 

- ActionEvent
- AdjustmentEvent
- ComponentEvent
- ContainerEvent
- FocusEvent
- InputEvent
- ItemEvent
- KeyEvent
- MouseEvent
- PaintEvent
- TextEvent
- WindowEvent

These are twelve mentioned events are explained as follows : 

### ActionEvent: 

This is the ActionEvent class extends from the AWTEvent class. It indicates the component-defined events occurred i.e. the event generated by the component like Button, Checkboxes etc. The generated event is passed to every EventListener objects that receives such types of events using the addActionListener() method of the object.
 
### AdjustmentEvent: 

This is the AdjustmentEvent class extends from the AWTEvent class. When the Adjustable Value is changed then the event is generated.
 
### ComponentEvent: 

ComponentEvent class also extends from the AWTEvent class. This class creates the low-level event which indicates if the object moved, changed and it's states (visibility of the object). This class only performs the notification about the state of the object. The ComponentEvent class performs like root class for other component-level events.
  
### ContainerEvent: 

The ContainerEvent class extends from the ComponentEvent class. This is a  low-level event which is generated when container's contents changes  because of addition or removal of a components.
 
### FocusEvent: 

The FocusEvent class also extends from the ComponentEvent class. This class indicates about the focus where the focus has gained or lost by the object. The generated event is passed to every objects that is registered to receive such type of events using the addFocusListener() method of the object.
 
### InputEvent: 

The InputEvent class also extends from the ComponentEvent class. This event class handles all the component-level input events. This class acts as a root class for all component-level input events.
 
### ItemEvent: 

The ItemEvent class extends from the AWTEvent class. The ItemEvent class handles all the indication about the selection of the object i.e. whether selected or not. The generated event is passed to every ItemListener objects that is registered to receive such types of event using the addItemListener() method of the object.
 
### KeyEvent: 

KeyEvent class extends from the InputEvent class. The KeyEvent class handles all the indication related to the key operation in the application if you press any key for any purposes of the object then the generated event gives the information about the pressed key. This type of events check whether the pressed key left key or right key, 'A' or 'a' etc.
 
### MouseEvent:

 MouseEvent class also extends from the InputEvent class. The MouseEvent class handle all events generated during the mouse operation for the object. That contains the information whether mouse is clicked or not if clicked then checks the pressed key is left or right.
 
### PaintEvent:

PaintEvent class also extends from the ComponentEvent class. The PaintEvent class only ensures that the paint() or update() are serialized along with the other events delivered from the event queue.
  
### TextEvent:

 TextEvent class extends from the AWTEvent class. TextEvent is generated when the text of the object is changed. The generated events are passed to every TextListener object which is registered to receive such type of events using the addTextListener() method of the object.
 
### WindowEvent : 

WindowEvent class extends from the ComponentEvent class. If the window or the frame of  your application is changed (Opened, closed, activated, deactivated or any other events are generated), WindowEvent is generated.

## Class Constructor

EventObject(Object source)

Constructs a prototypical Event.

## Class methods

1. Object getSource()

The object on which the Event initially occurred.

2. String toString()

Returns a String representation of this EventObject.

# Q2) Explain commonly used Event Listner interface with its methods and examples.

The Event listener represent the interfaces responsible to handle events.Every method of an event listener method has a single argument as an object which is subclass of EventObject class. For example, mouse event listener methods will accept instance of MouseEvent, where MouseEvent derives from EventObject.

### Class declaration
Following is the declaration for java.util.EventListener interface:

```javascript
public interface EventListener
```
Following is the list of commonly used event listeners.
1. ActionListener

This interface is used for receiving the action events.

#### Interface method

```javascript
void actionPerformed(ActionEvent e)
```

2. ComponentListener

This interface is used for receiving the component events.

#### Interface method

1. ```javascript
void componentHidden(ComponentEvent e)
```
Invoked when the component has been made invisible.

2. ```javascript
void componentMoved(ComponentEvent e)
```
Invoked when the component's position changes.

3. ```javascript
void componentResized(ComponentEvent e)
```
Invoked when the component's size changes.

4. ```javascript
void componentShown(ComponentEvent e)
```
Invoked when the component has been made visible.

3. ItemListener

This interface is used for receiving the item events.

#### Interface method

```javascript
void itemStateChanged(ItemEvent e)
```
Invoked when an item has been selected or deselected by the user.

4. KeyListener

This interface is used for receiving the key events.

#### Interface method

1. ```javascript
void keyPressed(KeyEvent e)
```
Invoked when a key has been pressed.

2. ```javascript
void keyReleased(KeyEvent e)
```
Invoked when a key has been released.

3. ```javascript
void keyTyped(KeyEvent e)
```
Invoked when a key has been typed.

5. MouseListener

This interface is used for receiving the mouse events.

6. TextListener

This interface is used for receiving the text events.

7. WindowListener

This interface is used for receiving the window events.

8. AdjustmentListener

This interface is used for receiving the adjusmtent events.

9. ContainerListener

This interface is used for receiving the container events.

10. MouseMotionListener

This interface is used for receiving the mouse motion events.

11. FocusListener

This interface is used for receiving the focus events.

# Q3) How do you handle events with an Adapter class in Java.

Java adapter classes provide the default implementation of listener interfaces. If you inherit the adapter class, you will not be forced to provide the implementation of all the methods of listener interfaces. So it saves code.The adapter classes are found in java.awt.event, java.awt.dnd and javax.swing.event packages.

## java.awt.event Adapter classes

Adapter class | Listener interface
--------------|-------------------
WindowAdapter | WindowListener
KeyAdapter | KeyListener
MouseAdapter | MouseListener
MouseMotionAdapter | MouseMotionListener
FocusAdapter | FocusListener
ComponentAdapter | ComponentListener
ContainerAdapter | ContainerListener
HierarchyBoundsAdapter | HierarchyBoundsListener

## javax.swing.event Adapter classes

Adapter class | Listener interface
--------------|-------------------
MouseInputAdapter | MouseInputListener
InternalFrameAdapter | InternalFrameListener

## Example

```javascript
import java.awt.*;  
import java.awt.event.*;  
public class MouseAdapterExample extends MouseAdapter{  
    Frame f;  
    MouseAdapterExample(){  
        f=new Frame("Mouse Adapter");  
        f.addMouseListener(this); 
        f.setSize(300,300);  
        f.setLayout(null);  
        f.setVisible(true);  
    }  
    public void mouseClicked(MouseEvent e) {  
        Graphics g=f.getGraphics();  
        g.setColor(Color.BLUE);  
        g.fillOval(e.getX(),e.getY(),30,30);  
    }   
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    new MouseAdapterExample();  
}  
}
```

# Q4) Closable Frame

We can close the AWT Window or Frame by calling dispose() or System.exit() inside windowClosing() method. The windowClosing() method is found in WindowListener interface and WindowAdapter class.

The WindowAdapter class implements WindowListener interfaces. It provides the default implementation of all the 7 methods of WindowListener interface. To override the windowClosing() method, you can either use WindowAdapter class or WindowListener interface.

## Different ways to override windowClosing() method

There are many ways to override windowClosing() method:

- By anonymous class
- By inheriting WindowAdapter class
- By implementing WindowListener interface

```javascrpit
import java.awt.*;  
import java.awt.event.WindowEvent;  
import java.awt.event.WindowListener;  
public class WindowExample extends Frame{  
    WindowExample(){  
        addWindowListener(new WindowAdapter(){  
            public void windowClosing(WindowEvent e) {  
                dispose();  
            }  
        });  
        setSize(400,400);  
        setLayout(null);  
        setVisible(true);  
    }  
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    new WindowExample();  
}  
```
## Close AWT Window Example 2: extending WindowAdapter

```javascrpit
import java.awt.*;  
import java.awt.event.*;  
public class AdapterExample extends WindowAdapter{  
    Frame f;  
    AdapterExample(){  
        f=new Frame();  
        f.addWindowListener(this);  
          
        f.setSize(400,400);  
        f.setLayout(null);  
        f.setVisible(true);  
    }  
public void windowClosing(WindowEvent e) {  
    f.dispose();  
}  
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    new AdapterExample();  
}  
}
```
## Close AWT Window Example 3: implementing WindowListener

```javascript
import java.awt.*;  
import java.awt.event.WindowEvent;  
import java.awt.event.WindowListener;  
public class WindowExample extends Frame implements WindowListener{  
    WindowExample(){  
        addWindowListener(this);  
          
        setSize(400,400);  
        setLayout(null);  
        setVisible(true);  
    }  
      
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    new WindowExample();  
}  
public void windowActivated(WindowEvent e) {}  
public void windowClosed(WindowEvent e) {}  
public void windowClosing(WindowEvent e) {  
    dispose();  
}  
public void windowDeactivated(WindowEvent e) {}  
public void windowDeiconified(WindowEvent e) {}  
public void windowIconified(WindowEvent e) {}  
public void windowOpened(WindowEvent arg0) {}  
}
```